docs(RDB): add migration doc for  Managed PostgreSQL MTA-4875 (#3537)
scaleway/docs-content: managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/api-cli/import-data-to-managed-postgresql-databases.mdx

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization

- [Created a target Serverless SQL Database](/serverless/sql-databases/how-to/create-a-database) to import your data into.

- Checked that the target database you are importing data into is empty, or contains data you can overwrite.

The import procedure depends on your data source:
    - [Importing data from an existing PostgreSQL database](#importing-data-from-an-existing-postgresql-database)
      - [Using pg_dump](#using-pgdump)
      - [Using pgAdmin](#using-pgadmin)
      - [Using Airbyte](#using-airbyte)
      - [Using Fivetran](#using-fivetran)
      - [Using Meltano](#using-meltano)
    - [Importing data from an existing PostgreSQL backup](#importing-data-from-an-existing-postgresql-backup)
    - [Importing data from a file (.csv, .txt, etc.)](#importing-data-from-a-file-csv-txt-etc)

## Importing data from an existing PostgreSQL database

### Using pg_dump

#### Prerequisites

> To complete this procedure, you must have installed PostgreSQL 16 (or newer) with [pg_dump](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgdump.html) and [pg_restore](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgrestore.html) (bundled with the default PostgreSQL installation).

Reviewer: This is true for Serverless Databases as PG 16 is the only version supported but on Managed PostgreSQL, we don't support PG 16 yet... 

We have to adapt a little bit to say that the user must have installed PostgreSQL with pg_dump and pg_restore in the same version as the one of their Managed PostgreSQL

Reviewer 2: Specifically, they must install pg_dump and pg_restore compatible with their target Managed PostgreSQL version.

      ```
    </Message>

2. When finished, make sure the backup is downloaded on your local machine. The default location is in the current directory, under `/my-backup`.

3. Run the command below to import data into your Managed Database for PostgreSQL using `pg_restore`. Make sure to replace the placeholders with your Managed Database for PostgreSQL connection parameters:

    ```
    pg_restore --no-privileges --no-owner --clean --if-exists -U {username} -h {host} --port 5432 -d {databasename} my-backup
    ```

    <Message type="note">
    You can find this information on the [overview page](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances) of your database.
    </Message>

4. Enter the database password you defined upon [Database Instance creation](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/create-a-database/) when prompted. 

5. When finished, make sure your data is stored in your new database by [connecting to it](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/connect-database-instance/), and performing a query.

### Using pgAdmin

#### Prerequisites

To complete the following procedure, you must have:

- Installed [pg_Admin](https://www.pgadmin.org/).

> - Ensured your PGAdmin version is compatible with the PostgreSQL version of the database you will import your data into. Currently, pgAdmin 7.8 or newer is required to fully work with PostgreSQL 16.

Reviewer: For Managed PostgreSQL, we need to remove "Currently, pgAdmin 7.8 or newer is required to fully work with PostgreSQL 16." and replace it with something like "Check this documentation https://www.pgadmin.org/docs/pgadmin4/7.8/release_notes.html to ensure compatibility"

3. Fill in the required information to connect to your existing database:
    - **Host**
    - **Port**
    - **Database Name**
    - **Username**
    - **Password**

    <Message type="note">
    You can find this information on the [overview page](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances) of your database. The password is the [IAM secret key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#api-key) corresponding to the [IAM user](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#user) or [IAM application](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#application) you are connecting with. 
    </Message>

4. Select an SSL Mode and an SSH Tunnel Method.

5. Select **Detect Changes with Xmin System Column** as **Update Method** (other methods are not supported).

4. Click **Set up source**.

#### Adding your new Managed Database for PostgreSQL as a destination

1. Click **Create a connection**.

2. Select **Postgres** from the list of destinations.

3. Fill in the required information to connect to your existing database:
    - **Host**
    - **Port**
    - **Database Name**
    - **Username**
    - **Password**

    <Message type="note">

>     You can find this information on the [overview page](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances) of your database. The password is the [IAM secret key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#api-key) corresponding to the [IAM user](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#user) or [IAM application](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#application) you are connecting with. 

Reviewer: Managed PostgreSQL is not integrated with IAM yet so we need to replace this with "the username & password that you defined upon Database Instance Creation"

    </Message>

4. Select an SSL Mode and an SSH Tunnel Method.

5. Click **Set up destination**.

5. Select the streams (tables) you want to load in your new Managed Database for PostgreSQL, then click **Next**.

6. Edit the remaining options if required, then click **Finish & Sync**.

7. When finished, make sure your data is stored in your new database by connecting to it, and performing a query.

<Message type="important">
This procedure does not currently work with Managed Databases for PostgreSQL. However, you can import your backup using [Managed Database for PostgreSQL and MySQL](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/).
</Message>

### Using Fivetran

#### Prerequisites

To complete the following procedure, you must have:

> - A Fivetran account and can connect to the [Fivetran console](https://fivetran.com/dashboard)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A Fivetran account, and be able to connect to the [Fivetran console](https://fivetran.com/dashboard)
```

Reviewer 3: Or should it be "are able to"? Given that the starting sentence fragment is "You must have..."

#### Connecting Fivetran to your Managed Database for PostgreSQL

1. From the Fivetran user interface, click **Add destination** in the [destinations list](https://fivetran.com/dashboard/destinations).

2. Enter a name for the destination (e.g. `my-new-database`), then click **Add**.

3. Select **PostgreSQL**, then click **Select**.

4. Fill in the required information to connect to your existing database:

    - **Host**
    - **Port**
    - **Database Name**
    - **Username**
    - **Password**

    <Message type="note">

>     You can find this information on the [overview page](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances) of your database. The password is the [IAM secret key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#api-key) corresponding to the [IAM user](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#user) or [IAM application](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#application) you are connecting with. 

Reviewer: Managed PostgreSQL is not integrated with IAM yet so we need to replace this with "the username & password that you defined upon Database Instance Creation"

    </Message>

7. Click **Save & Continue**.

8. Select the certificate in the list corresponding to `CN=sdb.{region}.scw.cloud`, check its validity, and confirm your selection by clicking **Confirm**. 

    <Message type="tip">
    You can ensure the certificate is fully valid only if all of the following checks are true:
      - Origin is Let's Encrypt
      - The CN field is `sdb.{region}.scw.cloud`
      - The complete certificate value is the same as the one hosted on `sdb.{region}.scw.cloud`
      - The root certificate is the same as [Let's Encrypt ISRG X1 Root certificate](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem)
    </Message>

#### Connecting Fivetran to your existing database

1. From the Fivetran user interface, click **Add connector** in the [connectors list](https://fivetran.com/dashboard/connectors).

2. Select your destination (for instance `my-new-database`), then click **Select**.

3. Select **PostgreSQL**, then click **Set up**.

4. Fill in the required information to connect to your existing database:

    - **Host**
    - **Port**
    - **Database Name**
    - **Username**
    - **Password**

    <Message type="note">

>     You can find this information on the [overview page](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances) of your database. The password is the [IAM secret key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#api-key) corresponding to the [IAM user](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#user) or [IAM application](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#application) you are connecting with. 

Reviewer: Managed PostgreSQL is not integrated with IAM yet so we need to replace this with "the username & password that you defined upon Database Instance Creation"

    - **Database Name** (5)
    - **Host** (13)
    - **Password** (14)
    - **Port** (15)
    - **Username** (32)

3. Select the tables you want to load:

    ```
    meltano select tap-postgres {schema-name}-{table1name}
    meltano select tap-postgres {schema-name}-{table2name}
    ...
    ```

    <Message type="tip">
    For instance `meltano select tap-postgres public-cities` if you are importing the table `cities` from the schema `public`.
    You can check the selected tables and columns with `meltano select tap-postgres --list --all`.
    </Message>

#### Configuring the loader to connect to your new Managed Database for PostgreSQL

1. Run the command below to configure the connection to your existing database:

    ```sh
    meltano config tap-postgres set --interactive
    ```

    A list of settings displays, with a number associated with each parameter.

2. Fill in the required information below by entering the number associated with each parameter:

    - **Database Name** (5)
    - **Host** (13)
    - **Password** (14)
    - **Port** (15)
    - **Username** (32)

    <Message type="note">

>     You can find this information on the [overview page](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances) of your database. The password is the [IAM secret key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#api-key) corresponding to the [IAM user](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#user) or [IAM application](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#application) you are connecting with. 

Reviewer: Managed PostgreSQL is not integrated with IAM yet so we need to replace this with "the username & password that you defined upon Database Instance Creation"

    </Message>

#### Executing the data import and loading

1. Run the following command to execute the data import and loading:

    ```sh
    meltano run tap-postgres target-postgres
    ```

2. When finished, make sure your data is stored in your new database by connecting to it, and performing a query.

    <Message type="note">
    By default, the `tap-postgres` extractor loads data in the `tap_postgres` schema, rather than the `public` schema. You can find your loaded tables with the following command:

    ```
    SELECT * from tap-postgres.{table1name} LIMIT 10;
    ```
    </Message>

## Importing data from an existing PostgreSQL backup

### Using pg_restore

#### Prerequisites

To complete the following procedure, you must have:

> - Installed PostgreSQL 16 (or newer) with [pg_restore](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgrestore.html) (bundled with the default PostgreSQL installation).

Reviewer: We have to adapt a little bit to say that the user must have installed PostgreSQL with pg_restore in the same version as the one of their Managed PostgreSQL

1. In a terminal, access the directory containing the backup file, then run the command below to import data to your Managed Database for PostgreSQL using `pg_restore`. Make sure to replace the placeholders with your Managed Database for PostgreSQL connection parameters:

    ```
    pg_restore --no-privileges --no-owner --clean --if-exists -U {username} -h {host} --port 5432 -d {databasename} my-backup
    ```

    <Message type="note">
    You can find this information on the [overview page](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances) of your database. The password is the [IAM secret key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#api-key) corresponding to the [IAM user](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#user) or [IAM application](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#application) you are connecting with. 
    </Message>

2. When finished, make sure your data is stored in your new database by [connecting to it](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/connect-database-instance/), and performing a query.

## Import Data from a file (.csv, .txt, etc.)

### Using psql

#### Prerequisites

To complete the following procedure, you must have:

> - Installed PostgreSQL 16 (or newer) with [pg_restore](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgrestore.html) (bundled with the default PostgreSQL installation).

Reviewer: We have to adapt a little bit to say that the user must have installed PostgreSQL with pg_dump and pg_restore in the same version as the one of their Managed PostgreSQL

- A data file corresponding to a single table (named named `my-table.csv` in the following procedure).

<Message type="tip">
You can create a `.csv` file from an existing PostgreSQL table with the [COPY TO command](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-copy.html), as shown below:

```sql
\COPY {tablename} TO './my-table.csv' WITH DELIMITER ',' CSV;
```
</Message>

1. In a terminal, access the folder containing your data file:

    ```
    cd path/to/my-table.csv
    ```

2. Connect to your Managed Database for PostgreSQL using `psql`:

    ```sh
    psql "postgresql://{username}:{password}@{host}:5432/{databasename}?sslmode=require"
    ```

    <Message type="note">

>     You can find this information on the [overview page](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances) of your database. The password is the [IAM secret key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#api-key) corresponding to the [IAM user](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#user) or [IAM application](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#application) you are connecting with. 

Reviewer: Managed PostgreSQL is not integrated with IAM yet so we need to replace this with "the username & password that you defined upon Database Instance Creation"
